# INTRODUCTION
* Distance calculator of an object in front or by the side of the moving entity is required in large number of devices. These devices may be small or large and can be quite simple or complicated. Distance calculator has important applications in automotive and industrial applications.
* The distance calculator through sensors is useful in detecting obstacles. It is the distance calculator feature that allowed to imagine about self-driving cars and robots. The distance calculator application is also used in industries to check fuel levels in aircrafts and commercial transport vehicles .These uses various kinds of sensors and systems. In this project we have implemented such a measurement system which uses a ultrasonic sensor, arduino and server motor. Ultrasonic means of distance measurement is a convenient method compared to traditional one using measurement scales. Ultrasonic sound waves are useful both the air and underwater. Ultrasonic sensors are versatile for the distance measurement and it is quite fast for the common application. The transmitted waves are reflected back from the object and received by the sensor again.
* This provide for cheapest solution. Any distance calculator application has a sensor circuit and an actuator or display circuit (to perform path change according to the obstacle detection or display the distance reading respectively). In this project we have used RF module to control the robot to demonstrate the project. The limitation of this system is it can detect the range between 2m-4m. 
